docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to Chronos Lab

A lightweight Python library for time series financial data analysis with modular architecture.

## Quick Links

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-rocket-launch:{ .lg .middle } __Getting Started__

    ---

    Install chronos-lab and build your first data pipeline

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Installation & Quick Start](getting-started.md)

-   :material-cog:{ .lg .middle } __Configuration__

    ---

    Configure API keys, storage backends, and environment settings

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Configuration Guide](configuration.md)

-   :material-book-open:{ .lg .middle } __API Reference__

    ---

    Complete documentation for all functions and classes

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Browse API Docs](api/index.md)

-   :material-code-braces:{ .lg .middle } __Examples__

    ---

    Real-world patterns and workflows

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: View Examples](examples.md)

</div>

## Key Features

**Modular Design**
: Install only what you need via optional extras (yfinance, intrinio, arcticdb, aws)

**Multiple Data Sources**
: Yahoo Finance for quick analysis, Intrinio for institutional data

**High-Performance Storage**
: ArcticDB for time series, datasets for structured metadata

**Intraday Support**
: 1m, 5m, 15m, 1h bars for algorithmic trading and backtesting

**Distributed Workflows**
: S3 backend for ArcticDB, DynamoDB for multi-process dataset coordination

**Type-Safe Configuration**
: Pydantic-based settings with environment variable overrides

## Quick Example

```python
from chronos_lab.sources import ohlcv_from_yfinance
from chronos_lab.storage import ohlcv_to_arcticdb

# Fetch data
prices = ohlcv_from_yfinance(symbols=['AAPL', 'MSFT'], period='1y')

# Store for later
ohlcv_to_arcticdb(ohlcv=prices, library_name='yfinance')
```

## Installation

```bash
# Quick start
uv pip install chronos-lab[yfinance,arcticdb]

# With Intrinio
uv pip install chronos-lab[yfinance,intrinio,arcticdb]

# With AWS support
uv pip install chronos-lab[yfinance,arcticdb,aws]
```

---

**Ready to dive in?** Start with the [Getting Started Guide](getting-started.md)

Commit message:

- Add Jupyter notebook tutorials for anomaly detection and integrate `mkdocs-jupyter` plugin for interactive docs. - Update storage functions with improved S3/local metadata handling and detailed docstrings. - Enhance anomaly detection and plotting APIs with refined parameterization and type annotations. - Expand documentation with new API reference pages for plotting and calculation modules.

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to Chronos Lab

chronos-lab integrates proven open-source tools—ArcticDB, scikit-learn, Hamilton DAGs—into a unified workflow for financial time series analysis. Fetch data effortlessly, leverage parallel processing for multi-symbol analysis, and build fully automated pipelines from ingestion to insights. Start prototyping in Jupyter notebooks, then scale the same code to distributed production with DynamoDB and S3. The value isn't in reinventing tools; it's in making them work together seamlessly, so you can focus on research.

## Quick Links

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-rocket-launch:{ .lg .middle } __Getting Started__

    ---

    Install chronos-lab and build your first data pipeline

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Installation & Quick Start](getting-started.md)

-   :material-cog:{ .lg .middle } __Configuration__

    ---

    Configure API keys, storage backends, and environment settings

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Configuration Guide](configuration.md)

-   :material-book-open:{ .lg .middle } __API Reference__

    ---

    Complete documentation for all functions and classes

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Browse API Docs](api/index.md)

-   :material-notebook:{ .lg .middle } __Tutorials__

    ---

    Interactive Jupyter notebooks with visualizations and step-by-step guides

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Browse Tutorials](tutorials/index.md)

</div>

## Key Features

**Modular Design**
: Install only what you need via optional extras (yfinance, intrinio, arcticdb, aws)

**Multiple Data Sources**
: Yahoo Finance for quick analysis, Intrinio for institutional data

**High-Performance Storage**
: ArcticDB for time series, datasets for structured metadata

**Distributed Workflows**
: S3 backend for ArcticDB, DynamoDB for multi-process dataset coordination

**Type-Safe Configuration**
: Pydantic-based settings with environment variable overrides

## Quick Example

```python
from chronos_lab.sources import ohlcv_from_yfinance
from chronos_lab.storage import ohlcv_to_arcticdb

# Fetch data
prices = ohlcv_from_yfinance(symbols=['AAPL', 'MSFT'], period='1y')

# Store for later
ohlcv_to_arcticdb(ohlcv=prices, library_name='yfinance')
```

## Installation

```bash
# Quick start
uv pip install chronos-lab[yfinance,arcticdb]

# With Intrinio
uv pip install chronos-lab[yfinance,intrinio,arcticdb]

# With AWS support
uv pip install chronos-lab[yfinance,arcticdb,aws]
```

---

**Ready to dive in?** Start with the [Getting Started Guide](getting-started.md)
